Update `cudf.pandas` skill with recent changes (#22787)
rapidsai/cudf: .agents/skills/debug-cudf-pandas/SKILL.md

Before starting, verify you are at the repository root. All commands in this skill assume the working directory is the cudf repository root.

**Reusing or refreshing the test checkout.** The test harness lives in `pandas-testing/pandas-tests/`. The runner performs first-time setup (cloning pandas, copying the test tree, rewriting imports) *only* when the relevant directories are missing, so re-running reuses the existing checkout — it is safe and fast. The xfail/skip markers are applied by a pytest plugin loaded fresh on every run (`-p cudf.pandas.scripts.pandas-testing-plugin`), not by appending to the pandas `conftest.py`, so repeated runs no longer accumulate duplicate hook registrations.

> Delete the checkout only when you need a clean slate. The runner uses two independent guards: it clones pandas into `pandas-testing/pandas/` only if that directory is missing, and copies the test tree into `pandas-testing/pandas-tests/` only if *that* is missing. So removing just `pandas-tests/` re-copies a clean test tree **from the existing clone**, while picking up a new pandas version (the clone is pinned to the tag matching the installed pandas) requires removing the whole `pandas-testing/` so the clone is refetched:

Reviewer: I'm a little weary telling an agent it can reuse an existing `pandas-testing/` directory as any modification could derail it's investigation.

Author: Good call — dropped the "safe to reuse" framing: it now warns the checkout is never refreshed, says never to edit the vendored test files, and to delete it whenever it may be stale.

---

## Step 0 — Update pandas-testing-plugin.py

The file `python/cudf/cudf/pandas/scripts/pandas-testing-plugin.py` contains three dictionaries that gate how tests are handled:

- **`NODEIDS_THAT_FAIL`** — tests marked `xfail` (expected to fail). Keys are alphabetically sorted.
- **`NODEIDS_TO_SKIP`** — tests marked `skip` (not run at all). Keys are alphabetically sorted.
- **`NODEIDS_PATHS_TO_SKIP`** — prefix-based path skips covering entire modules.

> The pandas-tests harness runs with `xfail_strict = false` (set in the vendored `pandas-tests/pyproject.toml` to tolerate flaky XPASSes — [rapidsai/cudf#22681](https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf/issues/22681)). A test listed in `NODEIDS_THAT_FAIL` that now *passes* is therefore reported as `XPASS` **without failing the run**, so a stale entry will not flag itself. You must remove the entry yourself before testing your fix; otherwise the test reports `XPASS` instead of a genuine `PASSED` and the dead marker lingers silently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pandas-tests harness runs with `xfail_strict = false` (set in the vendored `pandas-tests/pyproject.toml` to tolerate flaky XPASSes — [rapidsai/cudf#22681](https://github.com/rapidsai/cudf/issues/22681)). A test listed in `NODEIDS_THAT_FAIL` that now *passes* is therefore reported as `XPASS` **without failing the run**, so a stale entry will not flag itself. You must change the false to true yourself before testing your fix; otherwise the test reports `XPASS` instead of a genuine `PASSED` and the dead marker lingers silently. Do not commit this change in any commit.
```

Author: Applied, thanks!

- `mode.pandas_compatible` is automatically set to `True` when `cudf.pandas` is active. This is done at the end of `python/cudf/cudf/pandas/_wrappers/pandas.py`.
- cudf Python is almost entirely pure Python — for inplace installs, changes to `.py` files take effect immediately without rebuilding.

> - The xfail/skip markers are applied by a pytest plugin (`-p cudf.pandas.scripts.pandas-testing-plugin`) loaded fresh on every run, not by appending to the pandas `conftest.py`. Re-running with an existing `pandas-testing/pandas-tests/` is safe and fast. Deleting only `pandas-tests/` re-copies the test tree from the existing clone; to pick up a new pandas version delete the whole `pandas-testing/`, since the `pandas/` clone is guarded separately and is not refetched by removing `pandas-tests/` alone.

Reviewer: Instead, this should probably describe something like:

"if you need to modify `python/cudf/cudf/pandas/scripts/run-pandas-tests.sh` in a way that changes the `pandas-testing` directory, delete it before re-running the script`"

Author: Done — reworded to say to delete `pandas-testing/` before re-running if you change `run-pandas-tests.sh` in a way that affects what it places there.
